title: Amsterdam, Day 2
link: http://aimeeault.com/2013/06/19/amsterdam-day-2/
author: aimeeault
description: 
post_id: 1165
created: 2013/06/19 02:13:48
created_gmt: 2013/06/19 02:13:48
comment_status: open
post_name: amsterdam-day-2
status: publish
post_type: post

# Amsterdam, Day 2

Last night, I had a very odd experience. I am a bit of a documentary nerd. Everything from Cosmos to King of Kong. If it's on Netflix, there's a good chance I've seen it. Sometime at the beginning of this year, I had watched one on prostitution, which covered cultural aspects of it over a few countries: the US, India, Thailand, and the Netherlands. Recently, there was a story on the BBC about a young girl who was raised in an Indian brothel being the first of her upbringing to get a full college scholarship. My mind wandered back to the documentary where I remembered the conditions these women lived in and how their arrangements were like a sexual convent. I couldn't remember the Netherlands segment but friends of mine who have been to Amsterdam had described it and suggested going, because, as a feminist, it would be an indelible and unforgettable experience.  And, wow, was everyone right. De Wallen is the main street that runs through the Red Light District. Amsterdam's is well-known because the women are not on the street. They individually rent these tiny rooms that have windows for walls. The rooms are just large enough to fit a double bed and are cast in a discordant red neon light. The women are stunningly gorgeous at shy glance, wearing matching lingerie, and all have a vacant look on their faces as they either sit on their bed, bored, or stand at the window looking out into the crowd. Most looked to be in their 20s, thin attractive bodies, and were well-groomed. No one looked like they had been ravaged or dulled by their "career." It felt like I was at a zoo, these women trapped in the prison-like constructs of whatever series of bad decisions brought them to this place, gazing outside almost wistfully, lacking stimulation. It's hard to not pass judgments, because I have no problem with the legality of prostitution--it's their choice! But I wonder how different it is from a girl in college working as a stripper to pay off her tuition. Where she's otherwise intellectually fulfilled and this is just something she does on the side in pursuit of bigger goals. To me, it seems worlds different. You're putting both your physical and emotional health at risk for something that takes you nowhere other than down a spiraling road of no self-esteem. Whenever someone tries to snap a photo of one of the windows, the women will get outraged. One woman started to bang her fists against the glass. Everyone turned and looked. It only furthered how much I likened it to a zoo exhibit because it was such an animalistic reaction. After a few minutes of walking around, I started to notice it. It was late at night. I was a woman. Alone. In the red light district. I was wearing shorts, but I was also wearing a zip-up hoodie that was fully zipped. My hair was up above my head in a plastic clip. My hair is very long, wavy, thick, and full, so when I put it up like this, it looks very crazy, messy, and kinky. I usually don't pay much attention to how I come off. I am a fairly confident person and can deflect negativity easily because I am a very strong person at my core. Men were starting to say things to me. There was one word I kept hearing over and over again, but I didn't recognize it. I also kept hearing people call me "Zsa Zsa." I didn't know what that meant. Apparently some cute actress endured the same shit as me a couple of months ago. And another woman in Korea who actually blogged her full experience with much greater detail than I have. I stopped into a well-lit crepes place, took my hair down from the clip and combed my fingers through it to get it under control some. On one hand, I was oddly flattered that people were confusing me with these absolutely stunning and beautiful women, but at the same time, not at all(!) and really kind of confused how anyone could make this mistake with what I was wearing, and started examining what other women around me were wearing--nothing too different. The difference between us being that they were accompanied by men and I was this independent woman. Once I was back on the street, nothing had changed. When I was in Barcelona, I was in a very poor neighborhood and would get a lot of catcalls and remarks. This was nothing like that, however. It felt like I was a second-class citizen, like I should be ashamed of myself for being out on the street alone, like I deserved to have something bad happen to me. I was floored by all of this, examining myself and wondering, "What about my appearance is gaining attention? I'm not dressed particularly revealing." But I realized it couldn't be rationalized. If someone has this mindset where they are encouraged to sexualize women in their proximity, it won't matter what the woman is wearing. So rather than let it affect me, I just kept my head on straight and made my way out as quickly as I could. I obviously made it back safely and everything was okay. But I felt unsafe. And I've never felt that way before. I realize that this is a very artificially created environment. No one would be treating me this way if we weren't in what was an area established as a place where it is okay to treat women poorly. But how far does that go? I am inside of a single neighborhood of a city. Imagine being somewhere where the entire country thinks it is okay to physically and verbally harass women... and no woman can stand up for herself in this scenario because the ruling force acts with violence. I know I (fortunately) will never know what it's like to be a woman who lives somewhere where this is the norm, but for a few moments, I got a sneak peek inside and it really opened my eyes. Fourth-wave feminism has brought us Slut Walks and Reclaim the Night, but it's largely a westernized movement and many of the places afflicted worst with this kind of abuse are still blind to it.