title: Zagreb, Day 25: Patriotic Slut
link: http://aimeeault.com/2013/04/16/zagreb-day-25-patriotic-slut/
author: aimeeault
description: 
post_id: 674
created: 2013/04/16 17:30:22
created_gmt: 2013/04/16 17:30:22
comment_status: open
post_name: zagreb-day-25-patriotic-slut
status: publish
post_type: post

# Zagreb, Day 25: Patriotic Slut

Yesterday afternoon, I was walking down Savska Cesta, catching up on my Twitter feed. Mindy Kaling, who most people know as Kelly Kapor from _The Office_, was tweeting about how she was "out of the country & the news seems lame, guys"--she actually deleted the tweet, probably feeling awful for having said it--because a few hours later, a bunch of people were seriously injured and a few killed running the Boston Marathon.  She was right though. American news had been really stale and boring, what I was exposed to anyway, in the past few days. All we were hearing about from abroad was Justin Bieber saying something insensitive about Anne Frank and something about "accidental racism." This is following a spine-tingling and gripping week of drama between North Korea and the US in which North Korea decided to start beating its war drums with more punch than a Neal Peart drum solo. I laughed a bit inside when Kim Jong Un started making idle threats. But it did make me question what would happen if something serious were to happen while I was "away," if there were some potential for me to end up like Mehran Karimi Nasseri, trapped in an airport terminal for years. Logically, I know that's not going to happen to me, but I'm always coming up with survival plans in my brain anyway. Anyway, traveling makes me question my sense of patriotism. I have never considered myself to be a "patriotic" person. Mostly because when I think about being patriotic in America, I think about country music videos, pick-up trucks, NASCAR, screaming eagles, football, deer-hunting, and Jesus paraphernalia (is it obvious I grew up in the south?). But being patriotic abroad is different. It means taking pride in the things my country actually does right and not just the shitty facade of freedom that we like to circle-jerk it to on holidays. And yeah, America does do some shit right, believe it or not, but it's none of the things you would immediately think of as an American. We're a cool country because we make awesome movies and entertainment. Because as gentrified as America is, there's no denying that it is kind of a cultural melting pot and that that melting pot over a couple of centuries has solidified so much variety in what we get exposed to. Because it's a place where you're allowed to have a dream without fear of repercussion for just having a dream. Because you can actually get eggs done proper for breakfast in a restaurant. Because you can buy Nerf guns at 3AM on a Sunday. And because you can go in a restaurant and have a decent meal and be out in under an hour. So I'm not one of those brooding expatriate Ernest Hemingway "Lost Generation" travelers who shit-talks the country I came from. I like to appreciate everywhere I've been, everywhere I've lived. I don't walk around telling people here that America is better than Croatia and I most certainly will not return to America telling everyone that Croatia is better than America. The country I come from has a lot of problems. But being away from it reminds me of the things I do like about it just like when I am away from countries I have visited, I miss things about those places as well (I would kill for Gloria brand mango juice from Péru and I miss the fuck out of the way Berlin smells like sausage 24/7). That's what is awesome about being nomadic though... you don't have overwhelming loyalty to any one place... you learn to appreciate it all. And it forces you to reevaluate and gauge life optimistically. Maybe my patriotism is on the up because I've been listening to Baba Yetu though :D (how can you not have a sense of blinding pride in humanity when you listen to that song!) 

# Slut-Shaming

Excuse me while I go off on a huge rant of phenomenal proportion. Now that the weather in Croatia is very warm, I am noticing something I've never experienced anywhere I've traveled before (mind you, I have not traveled to Libya or any country that would likely cut my throat with a machete). I wear short-shorts everywhere I go, weather-permitting. And I'm a feminist. And by that, I mean I advocate political, economic, and social rights for women to promote gender equality. I've considered myself a third-wave feminist for a very long time... that is, I think it's important to evaluate the intrinsic value behind the phrase "separate but equal" when it comes to gender but also at the same time see that gender is often a construct meant to segregate us. In short, I have an extremely "masculine" brain, I think. I've met a lot of men who are feminists but would never brand themselves as one... I think I'm about as "feminist" as the men I know are. Men who would never want to see me be held back from being who I am because of horrible stereotypes and gender roles that tell me I should be bad at math or that I should be afraid to be alone or that I am in danger when I choose to live my life how I live it. I'm strong! I don't identify with man-hating pseudo-feminists or anything that has veered away from the original roots of feminism. I stand by fellowship between men and women. Pretty much every person in my life I would consider to be "feminist" in some respect. But getting back to what I was saying: I wear short-shorts everywhere I go. I logically know this means I'm going to get stares from men. That's inevitable. It's biological response. There's nothing wrong with that, either. It's flattering, not insulting. No one is ogling me or pulling out their junk and helicoptering it in my face. They're just glancing. And that's been pretty common in most places I've been. However, in Croatia... there is this very negative attitude towards women wearing short-shorts from women. And without any language being exchanged between us, the idea is communicated to me that I am a horrible person for dressing the way I do. The eyes look at me, then they shift down immediately to my legs as if to ask, "Where's the rest of your clothes?" The eyes come back up, look at me, and the face grows more and more exaggerated with disgust the longer the stare continues. They open their mouth. The jaw hangs. It's a sneer. There's no mistaking it. If it is a group of women, there may be some nudging and pointing at me followed by laughter. It's like they don't recognize that I am there. That I can see them. And that makes me question whether fourth-wave feminism (the antagonists of slut-shamers) has hit Croatia. The times that this has happened, I simply smile in return, because that's all I can do and that's all I'm willing to do. But it doesn't feel very good inside. And it makes me wish people were more open-minded and loving. The weather is warm, veering on hot, and this is what I am comfortable wearing. The looks don't make me uncomfortable, but I still question them. It's an odd reaction coming from a city where there are advertisements scattered around with naked women on them. Everyone is fine seeing exposed tits and vag as long as it's safely kept in the realm of photography but the second you see a girl's thigh, and just her thigh, it's a different story. It's interesting because men here do not seem to even give a shit. I'm treated with utmost respect by almost every man I've crossed paths with. They may glance but no one cat-calls or does anything demeaning--it's nice. I know all Americans reading this are thinking, "Uh, Aimee, can I have some of the crack you're smoking because we do all of this in America too." I know but it's different. In the U.S., and probably among many other cultures around the world (Croatia likely included), it's common for women to bond over mutual hatred of another woman... someone they have some affiliation with. It's an "Oh. my. god. Becky, look at her butt. It is SO big" kind of deal. I don't like it. In general, I can't understand bonding with anyone over mutual hatred.