title: Zagreb, Day 33: Home
link: http://aimeeault.com/2013/04/24/zagreb-day-33-home/
author: aimeeault
description: 
post_id: 741
created: 2013/04/24 18:21:05
created_gmt: 2013/04/24 18:21:05
comment_status: open
post_name: zagreb-day-33-home
status: publish
post_type: post

# Zagreb, Day 33: Home

A few days ago, one of the friends I've made here prematurely gave me a going away present that they had made. It was a black Rubik's Cube with words they had painted on to it. It seemed like a nice gesture but I was annoyed with it because I am terrible with Rubik's Cubes and didn't have time to sit around fiddling with it with my namby pamby girl fingers. I was having feelings of "man I just want to get out of here." (not personal to Zagreb, something that happens around 3 weeks into my stay anywhere--usually subsides within a few days). So I put it aside and then ultimately wrote a script that would brute-force it.  Each side has its own color. I don't know that I have arranged the colors correctly but I arranged them how they make the most sense to me. **Dark blue:** A mystery of life: What is my name? Could I be different when all are the same? **Black/Gray:** A life of mystery, till I turn to dust. Are the things I do the things I must? **Red:** A joy of flight, on feather and wing, unfettered by fear, daring to sing. **Yellow:** A flight of joy, let loose a smile, every new sight makes it worthwhile. **Green:** A change of pace to look anew on things passed, and stuff to do. **Light blue/Turquoise:** A pace of change, my two feet and me. Looking for home. Looking to be free. I like it a lot. It's got all the elements of what I'm doing and who I am right now. So thanks, Ivor. I always wonder how my story sounds to the people I meet. I was on a call last night with my Dream Team (Micah and Djordje) along with Angelo. I had the chance to hang out with Angelo last month while he was in Austin for SXSW and had told him about how I was coming to Europe. He had responded positively to it, even jokingly commenting that if we made a map of where all of DeviantArt staff is in the world, I'd have to be represented by a plane. He asked how my travels were going and what I thought the best part was... and I kind of paused for a second and realized I didn't have an answer because this has become so engrained into who I am that it doesn't feel like I'm doing anything "different." But the poem has a very defining part to it. "Looking for home, looking to be free." For the past 2 years of my life, I have asked almost every single person I've met the question: "What is your definition of the word 'home'?" The more people I've asked this, the more I've come to see that there are three answers I will get: 

  1. Cute, flippant answers piggybacking off of cultural references (after that song "Home" came out, more than half the answers were sung to me, "wherever I'm with you" or if not that some variant of "where I hang my hat")
  2. Very literal answers ("the town I grew up", "Berlin", "Austin", "a few blocks down the street", "the apartment I share with my roommate", "my parents' house", "where my friends and family are")
  3. Acceptance that home is some sort of abstract thing, not a literal place. Usually saying it's wherever they feel comfortable or most at peace with their inner self.
I've collected all these answers in a file on my computer. I don't judge people for how they choose to answer it. Some of the people I respect the most are the ones whose answers fall into categories #1 and #2, #1 often because the concept of "home" simply isn't important enough for them to have answer. And that's perfectly fine to me. I have over 50 answers at this point, some from people I know closely, some from people I've just met, some men, some women, some young, some old. I'm not sure how much the variety changes based on how well I know the person. Oddly, the one person whose answer I've wanted the most, the person who traveled with me, was homeless with me, lived with me, and is more like me than anyone I've ever met... I don't have the answer from. You can never go home. What little I know of my own definition of home is that when I gave up almost everything I owned, I learned what I always knew already: home isn't things. It's a philosophical edifice that follows you. Know who you are enough, and you'll always have somewhere to call home... even if it's just a flighty feeling in your heart. Even when you don't know where in the world you are or where you're going and the map is just a bunch of awkward squiggly lines, you'll know where your two feet are and that's all you'll need.