title: Belgrade, Day 14: Promaja
link: http://aimeeault.com/2013/05/11/belgrade-day-14-promaja/
author: aimeeault
description: 
post_id: 879
created: 2013/05/11 19:47:56
created_gmt: 2013/05/11 19:47:56
comment_status: open
post_name: belgrade-day-14-promaja
status: publish
post_type: post

# Belgrade, Day 14: Promaja

So last night was my first retarded "emergency" experience on this trip (emergency in quotes because it was not life-threatening just annoying). In my apartment, 3AM, this sudden loud buzzing noise starts. At first, I assume it's the fire alarm. I grab my passport, my money, my keys, and my laptop and run out in the hall, ignoring the fact that the noise seems to only be coming from my apartment and that no one else is leaving.  I run back upstairs. The buzzing is still happening. It's the phone for the front-door buzzer. It's really loud. I pick it up, but nothing happens. I rush back outside and then I notice. Someone has taken a hammer to the panel of buttons but only to the one for my apartment. I awkwardly call my host who is in Spain, "Um Ana, I'm so sorry to bother you this late but the phone on the wall in the apartment for the front door buzzer is going off very loudly and I'm not sure what to do." I immediately realized that my voice, although understandable to a native speaker, was rushed for a non-native speaker and she was like, "Slow down, I don't know half of the words you just said. What is a 'buzzer'?" I laughed and rephrased it. She wasn't sure what to do either, other than give me permission to break the phone. I return, find that the phone is now producing a smell of burning electronics and is really hot to the touch. I'm concerned it's going to start a fire, so I try to rip the phone out of the wall, only to find it's tethered by a lot of electrical wiring that can't be loosened without the risk of electrocuting myself. Eventually she sends her dad over, who looks like a nicer version of Zangief from Street Fighter, and he uses wire cutters to cut the phone loose. He says, "Cú se vratiti subota." I was like, "šta?", sort of confused by what was happening and his accent wasn't very clear so I was having trouble hearing him. He sort of flipped his hand gesturally at me and I realized he was saying "vratiti" (return). He smiled, I said "hvala" and then I was left with a totally busted door phone. I was glad to see that I'm able to keep my cool in an "emergency" here. 

# Promaja

One of my friends here told me about "promaja" yesterday. It's like some Balkan old wives' tale about how you're not supposed to sleep with windows open on both sides of your house or you'll get sick (like a cold or something). It's like Koreans with "fan death." She said it was just silly nonsense, of course, but that a lot of people take it seriously and that when she was a teenager, some doctor had taken her migraines as a "symptom" of promaja :D (She grew up in a smaller town about 2 hours south of Belgrade). 

# Personal Feelings

I've felt sad the past day or two. It's not important why, but I realized that my only option is to weather through the storm. So I am. I've tried to disambiguate my observations from my own personal life, but to be as vague as possible, challenging myself in the way that I am here has given me a tremendous amount of clarity about who I am and how much respect I have for myself, how much strength I know I have. And if I don't have that strength, I will die trying to gain it. I know I may be 110 pounds and shorter than everyone I know, but I have a cape, a series of hats, and rainbow-colored thigh high socks, and I realize that if I'm not being a colorful superhero, what the fuck am I doing am I doing with my time? I guess this popped into my head because I was talking to a friend who commented that I seem like the kind of person who takes any opportunity to have an adventure and dives right into it without second-guessing. I guess i'm happy that people see that of me. But I think it matters most to me that I see it in myself. As Helen Keller said, "Life is a daring adventure or nothing at all." 

# ASL Online and Language Fun

Bill Vicars, I found out, is now doing online ASL classes. I enrolled to see where I stand. I'm apparently at the level of 3rd semester ASL student right now. Which is cool. ASL continues to help me in non-verbal communication when I interact in other languages. And his course is really awesome for anyone who loves language, ASL or not. It gets into a lot of discussion of the linguistics of non-verbal language like non-manual markers (head-tilting, facial expressions, shrugging) to convey meaning, as well as lot of other intricacies of ASL that I wasn't aware of (apparently ASL speakers sometimes mouth the word 'CHA' when they sign BIG to indicate that something is enormous). A friend of mine asked me to proofread an article for him that he was posting on Reddit. I realized a few things from that. Namely that Serbo-Croatian does not have an explicit subjunctive tense. Rather, it has a subset of 3 different grammatical rules that contribute to something that simulates subjunctive tense. At most, the language takes part of the grammar for present indicative and tries to infuse that into subjunctive mood. Both Serbian and Croatian seem to have a lot of grammatical rules, more than any other language I have encountered. I was talking to my friend Alex online the other day. He speaks in Latin American netspeak to me a lot and I had never really questioned it because I just understood it on its own. There's a lot of initialisms. "que" becomes "q", for example. And as old friends often say to one another, "tqm." But it got me thinking what the local variations of netspeak are in Serbian. Is that a thing?