title: Zagreb, Day 34/35: Borders
link: http://aimeeault.com/2013/04/26/zagreb-day-3435-borders/
author: aimeeault
description: 
post_id: 744
created: 2013/04/26 18:24:42
created_gmt: 2013/04/26 18:24:42
comment_status: open
post_name: zagreb-day-3435-borders
status: publish
post_type: post

# Zagreb, Day 34/35: Borders

Yesterday, I went to Slovenia, but only for maybe an hour or so. Luka needed to change his car's tires. It is very common for Zagrebians to cross the border to Slovenia to get their tires for cheap. I thought it would be funny to have my only experience with Slovenia be a tire store. Everyone needs one country to have a totally frivolous experience with. I'll make Slovenia mine. As a result, I can never return to Slovenia again. Not that I have any real desire to. 

# The Schengen Agreement

It sounds like a taut political thriller starring George Clooney and Liam Neeson, but it's just a pain in the ass. I briefly entered the EU. I don't know if this counts against my 90-day limitation in the Schengen Area. It seems like a lot of people don't know anything about that, whether they are from America, Europe, or the Galactic Empire. The Schengen Area, as most Europeans know, is a big chunk of European countries under which foreigners share a unified travel visa, typically allowing a 90-day visitation for foreigners. As far as I know, all non-EU, non-EEAA countries aside from New Zealand (which gets 90 days per Schengen country) fall into this rule which prevents right of free movement. As an American though, I can mostly get away with overstaying my welcome because US passports aren't heavily scrutinized at passport control and if you do overstay, you're not generally going to hit any problems until you come back the next time. It's a lot more complex than that, but that's the quick/easy run-down. I'm sure there's plenty of exceptions to that rule that I don't know a thing about. Essentially though, as an American, I am legally only allowed to be in the Schengen Area for 3 months out of every 6 months. And once those 90 days are up, it's a continuous 90 days to reset the limitation. I can't re-enter any sooner. If I had residency or I were in the EU to study or do work, it'd be a different matter and I'd have a special visa just for that. But my visa is just the standard travel one that we all know and love. 

# Border Crossings

I've never had my passport checked crossing a border by land. I only had the US Passport Card before last year, because I had lived for a short while in Mexico several years ago. The Passport Card is only valid in the US, Mexico, and Canada. The times I drove into Canada, they didn't check it. One time, I walked into Canada. Border patrol did not like that. I got detained in their office. I was with a guy I was dating at the time who lived in Minnesota. We were on a long statewide road/camping trip that had taken us to International Falls after camping in Voyageurs National Park. International Falls is a very tiny town and as such, their border crossing is not much of a production, just a small office with a gate. After I had already cross the border, a patrol officer came chasing after me. There were a lot of questions about how me and this guy knew each other and what the fuck we were doing walking across the border and a supposition that one of us may have been smuggling prescription drugs. Despite the fact that this was post-9/11 and during the initial days of our longstanding Afghan War, no one was checking passports at the time at the Canadian border. I think 2 forms of identification were required, but they let me go with just my driver's license (who the fuck carries around their birth certificate?) The Croatian checkpoint expectedly was not much of a big deal. The Slovenian entrance point had some cool tech in place. There was a camera that took pictures of the cars that pass through and based on the license plate on the car, will inform the patrol guard of what type of car to expect based on registration records. It also had a secondary purpose of checking how high off the road the car sat on its tires to give guards an idea of whether not they should search the car based on the number of passengers (in case you were smuggling stuff [or people?]). Much to my surprise, the border patrol on the Croatian side did not stamp my passport on leaving. I wasn't sure how that worked. I could have technically not have come back and continued to have an open visa in Croatia. On re-entry, however, they stamped the passport. So I now have two open entry stamps for Croatia without any exit stamp, one by land and the other by plane, marked with different cities. It's like I'm some sort of teleporting wizard. I was also supposed to register with the local police when I arrived but never did. The US embassy's site claims it's a misdemeanor to not register and that I could be fined. Who ever thought coming to East Europe would turn me into a hardened criminal? No one ever tells you this stuff. I didn't find out about registering with the police until someone in Serbia told me that they would do it on my behalf and I thought, "pero que coñoooooo??" Luka explained a lot of stuff to me about how VAT works between countries and how if you bought something locally for use out of the country, you could get the VAT back, but you'd have to return to the country to get that money and how sometimes it's refunded to you by the store itself. I'd write everything I remember but I'd probably get the details all wrong because my ultimate impression was, "Everything about this sounds so inconvenient and annoying." Apparently people in Zagreb will sometimes mail things general delivery to the post office in Slovenia to save money. 

# Toll Roads

Somewhere along the way, Luka had to pick up a new toll road sticker for his car. He had like 3 or 4 of them for different countries and was complaining that Slovenia will get you by making it so that you get ripped off if you buy anything short of the yearly one. I may have misheard but it came off like the sticker was the only way you could pay, but you have to get the sticker from a store and can't just pay electronically at the toll. I thought about how confusing that must be to anyone who doesn't drive through Europe often, especially funny considering that these toll roads are toll roads at the expense of tourists. I get the same vibe from the Zagreb tram. You have to buy a ticket from a Tisak or vendor on the street and it's not at all obvious that you would go there to get it. You could also pay by text message, but that also isn't obvious at all, but that's really a broad picture of the biggest thing I have taken away from Croatia... there's a lot that you're just supposed to know, that isn't communicated by signage or writing anywhere. I come from a country where we have warning labels on curling irons to not stick them up your vagina. And while that's really stupid, I think there's something to be said for communicating necessity via written word in a clear, precise manner. I didn't think there were that many toll roads in the US though. The only ones I've ever encountered were in New York and California, so I was surprised to find that 36 different states have at least one toll road. Something I do like about the roads here is that, unlike the US, the stop lights change to yellow prior to going green. I mean, I guess I'd like that if I were driving. Which I'm not. I like more seeing that kind of transparency offered to pedestrians. When I was in Perú, the pedestrian signs had countdowns letting you know how soon it would be before you were allowed to cross. I think the same kind of indicators were available to drivers in France, but I can't remember if that's where it was or if I'm just imagining things.