title: Stockholm, Day 5: Kicked Out
link: http://aimeeault.com/2013/06/13/stockholm-day-5-kicked-out/
author: aimeeault
description: 
post_id: 1128
created: 2013/06/13 01:45:18
created_gmt: 2013/06/13 01:45:18
comment_status: open
post_name: stockholm-day-5-kicked-out
status: publish
post_type: post

# Stockholm, Day 5: Kicked Out

Today I got kicked out of the Tekniska Museet after breaking a fake torch in the underground mine. I was tempted to just write that and let it stand on its own because it's so ridiculous. But I guess, no, let's backpedal. There will be no pictures in this entire entry, but it's still fun, I promise!  I went to Cafe Fåtöljen (2 separate diacritical markings in one word? I feel so international) last night in the south part of Stockholm on Götgatan, which, according to my friend Mike, is the "hipster" street in Stockholm. The whole Södermalm neighborhood is the hipster area, really, but in my people-watching, didn't see anything overly cliche. I guess the guy hipsters grow beards, but all the other trappings of "hipster" are harder to draw lines around, I think, because so much of Stockholm's general population embraces what many Americans think of as hipster anyway ("Oh he's fashionable and rides a bike!" they say as the strapping blonde adonis coasts by on his commuter bike in a full tailored suit). **I learned a few things though about the Swedes:**

  * As is the trend with many countries I have visited, they admire American culture from a distance and yet simultaneously can be quite xenophobic. English is indeed a "trendy" language to speak here and people will code-switch at whim, sometimes conducting about half of their conversation in English and then switching back to Swedish, although I guess a lot of this type of behavior is reserved for quoting movies.
  * The Swedes use smiley emoticons a lot, often to alleviate the tension of something questionably impolite (like an aforementioned movie quote) or to take the edge off of something. Being told this was kind of odd because I feel myself do this sometimes to show people I'm joking. I've been told by many, many people while traveling (and even before that) that sometimes it can be hard to tell when I am serious about something because I am so deadpan in my delivery when I say something obviously stupid for humor's sake. So that wasn't a foreign concept to me.
  * There is an extremely high tax on alcohol here, like 200%, to dissuade people from drinking too much. Although I was told it is not very common to drink on weekdays. In general, the Swedes are very no-nonsense about drug use to a very funny extreme. To me, there is quite a difference between not doing drugs because it's just not who I am and not doing drugs because I have been culturally fear-mongered with wildly grievous misinformation about what would hypothetically happen if I were to. Basically, everything I do in my life... I do based on my own educated decision-making. If someone gives me a bunch of facts, my initial reaction is to skeptically analyze the information and seek truth from it. But I don't think how the Swedes purportedly act is necessarily aligned only to their culture. It's just a facet of conformity, which is universal. Surely there are free-thinkers in every culture :)
  * It's hard to get ice in Sweden, so there are these guys that do awkward under-the-table transactions where they deliver it to your door and then try to upsell you on things like beer, to skirt around the previously mentioned tax. This reminded me of these guys in Barcelona that would walk around at night trying to sell cans of beer out of plastic grocery bags. Sometimes, they would get very classy about it and do a configuration of beer cans on the ground shaped like a heart (because nothing warms a lady's heart like a 12-ounce can of Estrella, apparently)
  * Swedes are somewhat judgmental about jaywalking. I don't know how much I buy it, but the claim is that people will react very negatively to those they know if they jaywalk and that it might actually cause a rift in your friendship with that person or hinder you from fitting in.
So yeah. This was the first time in, well, months, that I had been around another native English speaker and it was a bit odd. I write quite a bit and I have spent plenty of time with non-native spakers in my traveling, but my recall on certain words was offset by milliseconds. I also felt a bit disarmed because Mike had commented that I seemed sad, to which I said, "No," but at the same time, it made me self-conscious... I don't know that I am coming off as sad to others, but I had to think about that some more and maybe comparatively I seem "sad" because I am more sobered and calm than what he and many older friends of mine know me for. He knows me as the girl who ran around posing for photos with people while wearing a Catwoman mask at 2AM in Paris, but while traveling this time, I have been less "wacky." Not because it's not part of my personality anymore... I am still very bold and kind of silly but I am a bit more evenly spread these days, I think. But yeah, today, I went to Tekniska Museet. It was in this park kind of far away. I went because, surprise, it was raining. There were all these exhibits on different technologies and you were encouraged to vote for which one you thought made the most significant contribution to humanity. Based on the previous year, I guess, they had provided a giant wall of statistics on how both adults and children rank the 100 different technologies. Kids think the computer is the most important. Adults think the wheel is. Once you get further down in the list, it starts to get funny to see where things fall. For example, adults think that loudspeakers are more important than dialysis :) Kids ranked "fuel for vehicles" as the least important technological discovery. I think this is kind of sociologically fascinating. I have a total girl boner for large volumes of data, especially when it involves linguistics, but even if not, some of the nerds I envy the most are the ones that get to work on analyzing massive amounts of it. Science and technical museums, while often having a lot of the same components from city to city, sometimes often have unique aspects relative to their location or just unique takes on what they think is relevant. Tekniska Museet had an entire wing dedicated to "inventions by women." I'm torn on things like this. I dream of living in a world where we don't have to make a big deal of women's achievements because they are celebrated inline with men's achievements. It's great that someone made a great sports bra that keeps your titties in place as you jog through the forest, but it'd be better if that display were next to something beneficial to everyone that makes a greater impact on the course of history, like finding out that a woman invented the combustion engine or something (if you are wondering who invented that, don't worry, I'm one step ahead of you. It was a Belgian dude named Étienne Lenoir). But... I bet you didn't know that the Tecmo Sonic the Hedgehog hand-held portable game was made by a woman! (Seriously, I do think that's cool. Women are largely removed from game development so to see a woman be one of the pioneers of it is awesome... especially since her role was largely understated). The museum had some other cool shit. There were kids playing Minecraft on a giant screen. They had some awful dancing game hooked up to an arcade-style DDR deck. And there was an invention called the "Peepoo," which is exactly what it sounds like it would be. It was a bag for people who live in undeveloped countries to poop (or pee) in made of biodegradable materials. So you could bury your poop and it would become manure. That's pretty rad! The museum also had an exhibit hall for telephony and computer science (like two separate wings, not that those two are interrelated [waiting for someone to argue that they are