title: Munich, Day 1: Travel
link: http://aimeeault.com/2013/05/28/munich-day-1-travel/
author: aimeeault
description: 
post_id: 1015
created: 2013/05/28 23:51:22
created_gmt: 2013/05/28 23:51:22
comment_status: open
post_name: munich-day-1-travel
status: publish
post_type: post

# Munich, Day 1: Travel

Yesterday, I left Beograd to head to München (Munich), Germany. I'm not sure what it was, but my travel experience yesterday versus what I experienced heading to Athens was significantly different, perhaps the mood being set by the fact that I was carrying my luggage this time. When I travel abroad, I have 3 bags: a primary luggage piece, a small duffel bag, and a backpack. I would love to have less, but this is about as far as I can pare down my belongings for when I am away for months at a time. Even carrying the duffel bag and backpack is obnoxious to me and slows me, a notoriously fast walker, down.  My trip to Munich had a long 4-hour layover in Istanbul, Turkey. I did not like being in this airport. I'm sure Istanbul, the city, is fine, but the airport was as close to an approximation of hell on Earth that my mind could devise. If you want the TLDR, let me recap: 

  * It's a very international airport so there were people from Asia, Africa, and Europe all making connections here. And that's really cool! I was impressed by how much ethnic diversity I was seeing in one place... all I could do was stop and people-watch. Many of these people have never used deodorant. That's fine. But when you have so many people packed into an airport on a hot day, the entire airport reeks of body odor. That's bad.
  * Some of the white people were wearing traditional and religious garb. Some of this attire I recognized, but some of it I had never seen before--like full suits (not robes, mind you) made of a white terrycloth material. I mostly saw it on older people, men and women. However, occasionally you would see a guy with his top piece opened up so that his hairy nipples were exposed.
  * The airpot had 2 open WiFi networks. I didn't care about using the Internet really. I just wanted to get online long enough to notify my bank that I was in Turkey for a layover so that they didn't do anything on the grounds of "suspicious charges." However, one of the networks required you provide a phone number. And then the one I ended up using was 1 euro to use for 24 hours. Cheap, except ultimately awful because it had 71% packet loss. At that point, you really should not be charging people to use your network because that's pretty awful!
  * I kept seeing these guys with shaved eyebrows. They looked like New Jersey guidos. They had very plastic-y girlfriends too. I was very beside myself here, trying not to pass judgment, but it was difficult, because for me, it's not a racial thing. I would feel the same way if I saw these kind of people in New Jersey.
But the experience there dredged up memories of days gone by. Once upon a time, a few years ago, I lived in South Carolina. This, for anyone not familiar with American geography, is in the southeastern part of the United States, and is where a lot of rednecks live, much like the image you might associate with Texas. I worked as a software engineer for South Carolina state government and I lived with my then-boyfriend mendozaaa. He was a UI/front-end developer. Neither of us were originally from South Carolina, but we both grew up there. We both hated South Carolina. We wanted to get out. Neither of us belonged there. When we first started dating, we were both students, poor, and that state was all that we had--I was more the ambitious one than he was, but even back then, my vision and awareness of the possibilities conceded that there was some sort of galactic heliopause to be found around the borders of South Carolina. A couple of times a year, he and I would somehow break through the boundary in a plane to go to places like New York or Seattle.When we retured, we would inevitably be routed through the airport in Dallas, which is where the tone of everything suddenly became swelteringly depressing. Although LaGuardia or SeaTac would be bustling with energy, Dallas was bloated, hot, and angry and grounded me back into my reality... a reality that mendozaaa and I both learned we needed to escape. When I started working for deviantART, I was no longer bound to SC and I left the first chance I could, to Portland. Any time I pass through an airport similar to Dallas/Fort Worth International, as Istanbul was, I feel an internal pause of relief as I make note that this kind of stress is no longer a part of my life and that when I go through a place like this, it is not an omen that I am returning "home" to a life more melancholy, but rather passing through an osmotic membrane from one good thing to the next. 

# Munich

I got into Munich in the evening, so I didn't have much of an experience with it yesterday. I took the S-Bahn to Isartor, which is about half a kilometer from the flat I am staying in. I'm a short walk to Marienplatz. My arrangement here is kind of interesting. I am staying in my host's bedroom. The flat is owned/rented by a group of friends but each of them is renting out their bedrooms while they are not around. My host, Peter, is staying somewhere else in town, so he's still here, and he's a really interesting guy. As I got in, we were standing out on the balcony just talking for a while about language and science and American culture and stuff like that when one of the other guys staying here showed up, Christian (I don't know if I am spelling this right, because he pronounced the last syllable like "ahn") who is from Melbourne, Australia and looked and sounded kind of like Moss from The IT Crowd. And he was fascinating... he's technically a professor but he's travelling around European cities doing historical/academic research on documents and correspondance between famous scientists. As in, he gets to go to all these archives and read and handle letters written by people like Niels Bohr! I felt like such an insignificant speck in comparison. I have a lot of admiration for people whose quest in life is to uncover knowledge for the sake of humanity. I'm learning though that I can't let that influence me though. I have a gift for other things and that doesn't make me any less a person... but it does make me realize I need to be doing those things. And writing is part of that, I suppose :) Anyway, it couldn't have been a better welcome into Munich to get to hang out with interesting people who seemed to accept me for who I am. I like this flat though. It's cute. And Peter seems to have the same Albert Einstein action figure and Stephen Hawking books that I had when I lived in Portland so it sort of made me feel like I was in the right place :D